hi guys my name is Bill and what I want
to show you today is how to replace the
belt on a maytag dependable care dryer
alright so once you discover that you
have a broken belt you want to check a
few things on your dryer now this is
going to require disassembling pretty
much the whole dryer here's the rest of
it
now if you don't know how to get the
dryer down to this point I just made a
video on how to you know basically break
this dryer down you can go ahead I'll
put the link in the description for that
once you get the dryer taken apart and
after you've discovered you have a
broken belt there's a few things you
want to check because it might might
have been something inside the dryer
that caused the belt to break so the
first thing we're going to check are the
rollers and that's these things on the
back here that the tub rides on the
nation's been pretty freely now these
are a little stiff because they're
rusted this was a flooded dryer so I had
to break those free with a pair of
pliers but they would need replace these
should spin on their own for a couple
turns and that's how you know they're
good if they're pretty stiff like these
ones are that'll cause extra friction on
the belt and cause the belt to basically
wear out before it needs to another
common one is the idler pulley and it
should also spin freely with the turn of
the finger now when there's a little
stiff so you would want to replace that
one I should do a couple turns on its
own when you miss penny
you can try cleaning the lint out of
them sometimes that works and you know
prolongs your life a little bit but
those are major things you want to check
right there or you know in some cases
the the belt just gets old gets really
cracked up which this one's not even
that bad
got a couple cracks on it but I've seen
belts that are basically hanging on by
like two ribs and the dryer still spins
but they need replace little bit it'll
just break so once you get the dryer
down to this point I'm going to show you
how basically to put the drum back in
with a new belt and then how to hook the
belt back up to the pulleys
all right so once you get your new belt
let me show you how to put it how to put
it back on first thing you want to do
slip around the tub
make sure the belts not twisted and I
always like the lineup with the wear
marks from the previous belt so once you
got it on the wear works keep tension on
it lift it up high and then from this
point you can put it right back in now
that you got a hooked on the rollers in
the back make sure it's lined up with
the with the wear marks from the old
belt and just basically drop it now you
know it's hanging over top of the motor
pulley and the idler pulley like it's
supposed to
now this is where it gets tricky you
know I'm just going to say right now but
this is the part where once it's hooked
on the rollers in the back you're going
to have to put your head inside the drum
reach in with two hands and hook the
belt but I'm going to show you how to
hook the belt up without this here in
the way so you can see what you're going
to have to do without being able to see
it it's a little tricky this one doesn't
have an access panel in the back to
where you can get you know some some
frigidaires do some other brands of
dryers they have access panels in the
back where you can you can see what
you're going to hook it up this one here
you're not going to be able to see so
you're going to want to see how it hooks
up to the pulley before you have to do
without being able to see it
all right so I'm going to do my best to
show you how you would hook this up
without with the holding the camera in
one hand and try to explain to you how
to do it with two hands so it's not to
be interesting so I've taken the tub out
and this is one side of the belt going
down around the tub this is the other
side going down around the tub I just
got hooked over over the back here but I
should be able to do this now in a
perfect world about has dropped down
exactly where it's supposed to go now if
you pay attention you reach in through
the hole under the drum with your left
hand grab this pulley and pull it this
way now you're going to this is what
you're going to want to do
when you bring your right hand in so
you're going to hold that over and then
with your right hand you're basically
going to take this push it down the side
of the pulley and then you're going to
hook it over a motor pulley and that's
what it's going to look like when it's
hooked up and then the tubs gonna lay
right over top - this is gonna go around
one side this is going to go around the
other and that's what its gonna look
like when it's up top this is going up
one side that's going up the other side
but you're gonna do that two hands at
the same time left hand reaches under
pulls the pulley over cuz if you don't
pull that pulley over that's not gonna
be long enough to hook it over top of
the motor that's why you reach it with
your right hand push it down reach it
over hook it and then there you go now
once you get it hooked up you want to
make sure that it stays lined up so I
always roll it you know clockwise roll
the drum slowly clockwise said the belt
can do one rotation so when you put it
back together and you hit the start
button doesn't pop off because it wasn't
perfectly lined up so you want to go
ahead and just roll the drum clockwise
at least one turn of the belt to make
sure that it's lined up you'll be
looking on top of the dryer as the belts
go on and it may veer off track a little
bit come back and then go back on and
that's when you can you know that's when
you can pretty much know for sure that
when you hit the start button after you
put this back together
the belts not gonna pop off if you don't
do that you run the chance of the belt
popping off so you always want to rotate
the drum after you get that hooked at
all right guys there you go that's how
you replace the belt on a maytag
dependable care dryer I want to thank
you guys for watching go ahead and
subscribe to the channel for more videos
and good luck on your repair